In this lesson we will continue to build our project and design table schema along with a model that will hold
all questions in our application.
And because the question is created by the user will also link or make relationship between the user
and question model.
All right let's go to our terminal and generate a new model. Actually before we do that
let's create a new branch
In our local repo so that we can work in isolation. If I type git branch
right now we're on master branch.
So let's create new branch by typing git
checkout -b and the branch name could be anything but since we are in the second lesson so I'm
going to say lesson-2
so now it stays switched to a new branch
lesson-2. All right
Let's generate a new model by typing php artisan make model and the model name will be
Question.
Remember that by convention the model name in singular and written in capital or in camel case. And eloquent
will assume that this question model store record in the questions table in plural and written
in snake case.
We could return to actually generate the model and after that we can create a new migration and define
questions table. But actually we can also do that in a single command by specifying the  --migration
Or we can just specify -m like so. By doing this we tell artisan to generate question model
along with the migration file that we can use to define the questions table. Hit return.
All right so if we look inside database migrations
we now have create question table.
Open the file
and lets go ahead and fill this out.
So every questions is going to have a title.
So let's have a title column in a string string title. Let's
also have slug of this question and slug basically title that are constructed to make pretty URL
so we can call this slug and this needs to be unique
for each records in this table
and then we need to have actual content
so that's going to be body
and it should be in text
and then we need to record how many times the question is viewed.
So we can say table and that's going to be unsigned
integer because the value will never be less than zero.
And let's make it the zero by default
because when the first time the question is created it has not seen by anyone
right?
and then we need to record how many answers the question has and we simply duplicate this line.
And change to answers.
We also need to have votes that record how many people are voting a question so table integer because
I show in overflow that votes can be negative.
That's why it's integer not unsigned integer.
And let's also make it zero by default
then we need to record the accepted or best answer id. So we can say table
and that's going to be unsigned integer
and it also should be nullable
because a question could be has no answer
or it could be has answers but none of them is accepted by the creator of the question.
And last we need to keep track of the user that create the question. So we can say table and that's
going to be unsigned
integer
And we'll call it user underscore
id
The reason why I defined user id in unsigned integer other than what I mentioned earlier is because I will
make the user id column as foreign key which constrain us to define both columns in both tables are
identic so
Increment id will create ID column in unsigned integer primary key and auto increment.
So here
we can say table foreign
user id it will reference
ID on users table ok.
And whenever the user deleted all questions related to the user will be cascaded or they will also be removed.
So here on delete
cascade like so
ok save that. And let's go back to our terminal and run latest migration file by typing php artisan
migrate
All right
so now that we have question model as well as a questions table to hold all questions
in our application.